README.md, before:

[life-weeks-readme.md](https://github.com/user-attachments/files/24412568/life-weeks-readme.md)
# Life in Weeks

A minimalist life visualization and journaling app that helps you reflect on the passage of time. Visualize your entire life as a grid of weeks, where each dot represents one week of your life.

![Life in Weeks Preview](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-active-success)
![PWA Ready](https://img.shields.io/badge/PWA-ready-blue)

## Features

✨ **Life Visualization**
- View your entire life as a grid of weeks (52 weeks per row = 1 year)
- Each row starts on your birth date anniversary
- Past weeks appear in gray, current week is highlighted, future weeks are light gray

📝 **Life Journal**
- Hover over any week to see the date range
- Click on specific dates to add personal memories
- Weeks with memories appear in blue
- All memories are saved locally on your device

📊 **Life Statistics**
- Total weeks lived and remaining
- Percentage of expected life lived
- Heartbeats, breaths, and sleep hours
- Moon cycles witnessed
- Philosophical perspective on time

🎨 **Minimalist Design**
- Inspired by Dieter Rams' "less, but better" philosophy
- Clean, uncluttered interface
- Thoughtful typography and spacing
- Mobile-responsive design

📱 **Progressive Web App**
- Install on your phone like a native app
- Works offline once installed
- No app store required

## Installation

### Use Online (Easiest)
Visit the hosted version: [Your GitHub Pages URL will go here]

### Install on Mobile

**iPhone/iPad:**
1. Open the app in Safari
2. Tap the Share button (square with arrow)
3. Scroll down and tap "Add to Home Screen"
4. Tap "Add" in the top right

**Android:**
1. Open the app in Chrome
2. Tap the menu (three dots)
3. Tap "Install app" or "Add to Home screen"
4. Tap "Install"

### Run Locally
1. Download `life-in-weeks.html`
2. Open it in any modern web browser
3. That's it! No build process or dependencies needed

## How to Use

1. **Enter Your Birth Date** - Tell the app when you were born
2. **Set Life Expectancy** - Choose your expected lifespan (default: 80 years)
3. **Explore Your Life** - Hover over weeks to see dates
4. **Add Memories** - Pause on a week for 0.5 seconds to open the date picker
5. **Journal** - Click specific dates to write what you want to remember

## Privacy

- All data is stored **locally on your device**
- No data is sent to any server
- Your memories are private and never leave your device
- Clear your browser data to reset

## Technical Details

- Pure HTML/CSS/JavaScript - no build process
- React 18 for UI
- Tailwind CSS for styling
- localStorage for data persistence
- PWA-ready with service worker

## Inspiration

This project was inspired by:
- Tim Urban's "Your Life in Weeks" visualization
- Dieter Rams' design principles
- Stoic philosophy and "memento mori"

## Browser Compatibility

Works on all modern browsers:
- Chrome/Edge (recommended)
- Safari
- Firefox
- Mobile browsers (iOS Safari, Chrome on Android)

## License

MIT License - feel free to use, modify, and share!

## Contributing

This is a personal project, but suggestions and improvements are welcome! 

Feel free to:
- Open an issue for bugs or feature requests
- Submit a pull request
- Fork and customize for your own use

## Roadmap

Potential future features:
- Export/import memories as JSON
- Add photos to memories
- Color-code different life events
- Share specific weeks (without revealing personal memories)

---

**Made with reflection and mindfulness**

*"The whole future lies in uncertainty: live immediately." - Seneca*

Commit message:

Add personalized welcome with user name
Updated installation instructions and added hosted version link.

README.md, after:

# Life in Weeks

A minimalist life visualization and journaling app that helps you reflect on the passage of time. Visualize your entire life as a grid of weeks, where each dot represents one week of your life.

![Life in Weeks Preview](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-active-success)
![PWA Ready](https://img.shields.io/badge/PWA-ready-blue)

## Features

✨ **Life Visualization**
- View your entire life as a grid of weeks (52 weeks per row = 1 year)
- Each row starts on your birth date anniversary
- Past weeks appear in gray, current week is highlighted, future weeks are light gray

📝 **Life Journal**
- Hover over any week to see the date range
- Click on specific dates to add personal memories
- Weeks with memories appear in blue
- All memories are saved locally on your device

📊 **Life Statistics**
- Total weeks lived and remaining
- Percentage of expected life lived
- Heartbeats, breaths, and sleep hours
- Moon cycles witnessed
- Philosophical perspective on time

🎨 **Minimalist Design**
- Inspired by Dieter Rams' "less, but better" philosophy
- Clean, uncluttered interface
- Thoughtful typography and spacing
- Mobile-responsive design

📱 **Progressive Web App**
- Install on your phone like a native app
- Works offline once installed
- No app store required

## Installation

### Use Online (Easiest)
Visit the hosted version: [https://yourusername.github.io/life-in-weeks/](https://yourusername.github.io/life-in-weeks/)

*(Replace `yourusername` with the actual GitHub username)*

### Install Locally (Your Own Copy)

**Option 1: Download and Open**
1. Go to the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/yourusername/life-in-weeks)
2. Click the green **"Code"** button
3. Click **"Download ZIP"**
4. Extract the ZIP file to a folder on your computer
5. Open `index.html` in any web browser (Chrome, Firefox, Safari, Edge)
6. Bookmark it for easy access

**Option 2: Clone the Repository** (if you know Git)
```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/life-in-weeks.git
cd life-in-weeks
open index.html
```

**Your data is private!** All memories are stored locally on your device. Nothing is sent to any server.

### Install on Mobile

**iPhone/iPad:**
1. Open the app in Safari
2. Tap the Share button (square with arrow)
3. Scroll down and tap "Add to Home Screen"
4. Tap "Add" in the top right

**Android:**
1. Open the app in Chrome
2. Tap the menu (three dots)
3. Tap "Install app" or "Add to Home screen"
4. Tap "Install"

### Run Locally
1. Download `life-in-weeks.html`
2. Open it in any modern web browser
3. That's it! No build process or dependencies needed

## How to Use

1. **Enter Your Birth Date** - Tell the app when you were born
2. **Set Life Expectancy** - Choose your expected lifespan (default: 80 years)
3. **Explore Your Life** - Hover over weeks to see dates
4. **Add Memories** - Pause on a week for 0.5 seconds to open the date picker
5. **Journal** - Click specific dates to write what you want to remember

## Privacy

- All data is stored **locally on your device**
- No data is sent to any server
- Your memories are private and never leave your device
- Clear your browser data to reset

## Technical Details

- Pure HTML/CSS/JavaScript - no build process
- React 18 for UI
- Tailwind CSS for styling
- localStorage for data persistence
- PWA-ready with service worker

## Inspiration

This project was inspired by:
- Tim Urban's "Your Life in Weeks" visualization
- Dieter Rams' design principles
- Stoic philosophy and "memento mori"

## Browser Compatibility

Works on all modern browsers:
- Chrome/Edge (recommended)
- Safari
- Firefox
- Mobile browsers (iOS Safari, Chrome on Android)

## License

MIT License - feel free to use, modify, and share!

## Contributing

This is a personal project, but suggestions and improvements are welcome! 

Feel free to:
- Open an issue for bugs or feature requests
- Submit a pull request
- Fork and customize for your own use

## Roadmap

Potential future features:
- Export/import memories as JSON
- Add photos to memories
- Color-code different life events
- Share specific weeks (without revealing personal memories)

---

**Made with reflection and mindfulness**

*"The whole future lies in uncertainty: live immediately." - Seneca*
